# Overview

To this date, most technologies have been built for only one language: English. We want to extend the current capabilities of our voice assistant to other languages without the need for training data manual annotation. Although multiple approaches have been proposed to solve this problem ranging from translating sentences to English before execution to training multiple neural models for each language, the assistants are far from being useful. In this project, we propose direct translation of sentences from English to target language using machine translation neural models. We don't require any language-specific knowledge of the target language and will only need access to native speakers during collection of real test data for final evaluation. Our preliminary result on Farsi language for restaurants domain is 80\% on a manually-verified dev set and 48\% on sentences gathered from Farsi native speakers.


# Project Goal

We plan to explore at least 5 domains in 20 languages, with the help of people from around the world, to examine differences between natural languages and test the scalability of this approach. Our goal is to show that a non-technical native speaker can add a new language capability to an existing conversational agent for a domain in just a couple of days.

# Instruction

Who: If you are a native speaker of a foreign language, you can help us with this project. No other expertise is required.
What: ask you to verify the correctness of each sentence generated by Google translate. If it is both semantically and syntactically correct the sentence is verified. Otherwise, revise the sentence so it is correct. It is OK if the verified sentence is still not natural to say, cause we additionlly ask you to provide two more natural translations of each English sentence. The first one should be the more natural way of saying the verified sentence. For the second one, we want you to be creative! We want you to give us a sentence which is different than verified and natural sentences you just wrote but is still correct and natural. It can be the colloquial form, the most natural way of saying that command, or ...
When: Anytime you can help us is a good time! 

# Data sheet

We host our dataset here: [*dataset*](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WUqgBkb_8sT5ItNWSpsSWhE6UWW8HV6lVHNHcjN2r78/edit?usp=sharing)

In each language sheet, you will see the following columns:											
English sentence is the original English sentence that we want you to translate. English sentence with Quotations is the same sentence with added quotations around important words or phrases. We would like to track the location of these words in the translation. For this purpose, we ask you to keep quotations marks (" ") in you translations, even if your language does not have quotation marks, or has a different mechanism for quotes. We realize that in some languages, the phrase inside the quote might be combined with its surrounding words. In such cases, please put quotation marks (" ") around the smallest span of text that includes the translation of the quoted word or phrase. A simple removal of " and " characters should result in a valid sentence.<br>						
To fill the Revise with minimal changes column, start from the Google translated column and change as few things as possible to make the sentence coherent, an acceptable translation and grammatically correct. Correct word ordering, verb tense, add missing words etc. We expect some sentences to be exactly copied from Google translated column. Bear in mind that you are allowed to make at most 3 changes. Otherwise put 'XXX' in the the revised column and provide feedback on what is wrong and if this is a general problem with your language or not.												
To fill the Translate column, start from English sentence with Quotations and write you own translation of it. We encourage you to use your own words and style.											
In the Natural sentence column, write another way of writing the same translation.							



# Things to remember!
- Please use space to seperate individual words if your language allows that. 								
- Please leave the word seperation in the translated text intact.								
- Please keep quotation marks around parameters as you write your sentences. If you notice a parameter should have been quoted and it's missing one or both quotation marks, please insert that when writing your sentences. (Google translate sometimes drop these marks and symbols.) 				
- Some languages have different written and spoken forms. Some proper nouns are typed with English characters and some are transliterated. Write how you would type the sentence for a text-based virtual assistant.
			

# FAQ
<hr>

### Does the verified sentence need to be natural?
Nope. You are not supposed to revise the translation if its grammatically correct and preserves the meanig, the parameter values, and the entities. If it is correct but does not look natural, it is OK. We ask you to provide more natural looking sentences in subsequent columns. 

### What is the difference between Translate column and Natural Language column?
The difference is that for the former you look at Revised version of your translations and try to make it look more natural. For the latter, you are no longer constrained by the Revised sentence anymore. Based on the Google Translated sentence, you are supposed to generate a natural looking sentence which conveyes the same meaning and preserves the parameter values and entities.

### How correct should the verified sentences be?
We are looking for minimum number of actions to fix each sentence (i.e. If a problem can be fixed with one edit instead of two we prefer the former)


# Citation
<hr>
If you use this in your work, please cite [link to be added]().

```
@article{
}
```
